By Martin Amis. Talk Miramax Books/Hyperion; 406 pages; $23.95. Jonathan Cape; £18   THERE'S nothing so simple here as beginning at the beginning, going on to the end and then stopping. Perhaps because he is famous and his father is famous, Martin Amis assumes, in his memoirs, that you know the story. What he does may seem “staccato, tangential, stop-go”, but it reflects, he says, “the geography of a writer's mind”. So, one moment he's six, the next he's 26; here his parents are divorced, a article later married. The point is the parallels and connections. His book is cross-hatched with them, running across from fathers to sons and back; between marriages and books, between books and books, between births and deaths. He says autobiography meant being able to write without artifice, but his writer's cunning is everywhere. Take, for example, this bare outline of one of his sequences: winning the Somerset Maugham prize for “The Rachel Papers” in 1973, when he was only 24, puts him in mind of his father winning the same prize 20 years before; the prize stipulated foreign travel which took the family to Portugal; which takes Amis fils (pictured above with his second wife, Isabel, and their daughter) to Spain to visit his mother; which reminds him of a later holiday there; which raises a memory of his visiting aunt, who stirs thoughts of her vanished daughter, Lucy Partington, one of the victims of Frederick West, a British serial killer. She had disappeared the Christmas before, and so we wind back. A rambling concatenation, it seems. But the reason for bringing up the aunt and Lucy Partington in precisely that place in the book is that on the previous article he has just described a conversation with his mother (which, incidentally, happened three years later) about his possible paternity of a little girl by a married friend. The child, Delilah Seale, and Lucy Partington, are the two ghosts of “Experience”, his “missing”, as he calls them (though Delilah Seale was restored to him later). Their photographs keep company in his study, and they conjure each other in his mind. Thus, the geography of the book circles and doubles, with long footnotes to take the spread. Why footnotes? “To preserve the collateral thought,” says he. In fact, the whole thing is a lattice of collateral. But to come to what Amis-followers have been waiting for. In fact, there's not much dirty linen: his break with Julian Barnes; his repudiation of the “Biographer”, as he calls him, Eric Jacobs, who came “bucking and blundering” through the mourning family's feelings with his “rude” (Martin Amis's mother's word) articles about Kingsley Amis; reviewers, the press in general, and that's it. His copious tears over the failure of his first marriage do him credit, were it not that they become a cartoon before they're dry: “I was vexed by the thought that there was an indicator flashing something like the watering-can symbol on the dashboard of a car, telling me I had used up all my spray.” The same characteristic eye for absurdity serves him better elsewhere: himself as a “reeking” adolescent, slowly transferring socks from one end of the room to the other, or as a 1970s Osric (Hamlet's “water-fly”), peacocking it in crushed velvet flares; his friend Rob, ex-public school, ex-Wormwood Scrubs, teaching him how to talk posh; godfather Philip Larkin, doling out five and seven pennies in tips for himself and his brother; Christopher Hitchens, at Saul Bellow's dinner table, in a “cerebral stampede” over their host's Jewish sensitivities; and in among all the good stories, the epic of his crumbling and excavated teeth. But the best part of “Experience” is Kingsley Amis, or rather Martin-and-Kingsley Amis. The father was a prey to phobias and drink; women were a prey to him; father and son disagreed on almost every issue—politics, Jews, feminism, the bomb. But Martin Amis's understanding of and affection for the man comes across movingly, and his last days in hospital are the most sustained, the least “stop-go” in the book. His affection for his mother is equally touching. And for his brother. His sister too. And aunt. In fact Martin Amis, the bad boy, turns out to be an exemplary family man. But with his father there was the special bond of language. And that too is what this book is about. “Style is morality”, says the son in one place, defending “Lolita”. Words stop Mr Amis mid-track—his own, Nabokov's, Joyce's, Milton's. He chooses, defines, thesaurises, to the point of mannerism. “Experience” makes play, throughout, with the idea of innocence. To make an Amis-like connection: his praise for Elizabeth Jane Howard, his one-time stepmother and a novelist herself, contains a touch of nostalgia. As an “instinctivist”, she is the kind of writer he himself could never be.